---
layout: page-fullwidth
title: "Kapil Sharma's new blog"
subheadline: "Discovering github.io"
meta_keyword: "Kapil Sharma, personal blog"
meta_teaser: "I'd my own personal blog in wordpress but I was never comfortable with wordpress. Fortunately now Github pages and Jekyll seems perfect for my style."
teaser: "I'd my own personal blog in wordpress but I was never comfortable with wordpress. Fortunately now Github pages and Jekyll seems perfect for my style."
header:
   kapil_front: "#304558"
#image:
#    thumb:  homepage_typography_thumb.jpg
#    homepage: homepage_typography.jpg
#    caption: Image by Antonio
#    caption_url: "http://www.aisleone.net/"
categories:
    - design
---
<div class="row">
<div class="medium-4 medium-push-8 columns" markdown="1">
<div class="panel radius" markdown="1">
**Table of Contents**
{: #toc }
*  TOC
{:toc}
</div>
</div><!-- /.medium-4.columns -->
<div class="medium-8 medium-pull-4 columns" markdown="1">

## Existing blogs

I'm already blogging on my personal blog; [blog.kapilsharma.info][1]. However I was never regular on that.

Time issue, out of contents etc? Yes, they were reasons but major one was, editing in WYSIWYG editor. I was never comfortable with WYSIWYG. So even though I'm using workpress, I never loved it.

> Wordpress developers, please don't get offended, its just a matter of personal preference.

As developer, I know markdown and love to use that. Jekyll provided me just what I am comfortable with. However taking decision of using Jekyll was not easy, obviously changes are always difficult to accept. Why should I change anything if it is working just fine and another option have some learning curve.

I tried octopress and jekyll earlier, but never succeed. However recently I was looking options for managing [PHP Reboot][2] site. Its just a community management job so I needed an easy way of managing [phpreboot][2] site.

Wordpress was first option (although not loved one) but managing PHP Reboot's monthly magazine (collection of blogs) seems not easy in wordpress. I certainly didn't wanted to write costom code in wordpress.

## First serious encounter with Jekyll

So my hunt begin again, looking available modules in Joomla, Drupal, wordpress and other options as well. After google a bit, Jekyll and Octopress appears as possible options.

### Why I decide to give jekyll a try?

Just after some search on google, Jekyll seems perfect match for me. My requirements were:

- CMS. Oops yes. I cant make HTML every time I add/update something.
    - And I'm supposed to update magazine daily.
- But no CMS. Well my personal experience, they are not very good at optimizations. As developer, I always preferred frameworks over CMS.
- Other then adding new blogs, article and tutorials in magazine, remaining site pages are just simple static pages and may be a blog.
- Well being a community site, it is supposed to support some dynamic features; at least comments and contact us form.

### Few compromise

At first sight, I though Jekyll, being a static site generator, will not match my requirements. Still I decided to have some compromises like:

- Comment: Well leave for now.
- Contact us: Hmm not good but will give a email address on contact us form. Most difficult decision.
- Magazine: Not perfect but updating markdown is just like typing for me.

### And then challenges



</div><!-- /.medium-8.columns -->
</div><!-- /.row -->

[1]: http://blog.kapilsharma.info
[2]: http://www.phpreboot.com
